---
title: Expanding a little my confort zone
date: 2024-11-16 12:11:00 +0100
categories: [personal]
tags: [spiritualrealm,cognitiverealm]
---

# Hello to all of myself

I'm Miguel—an introvert, a curious about how everything works, a thinker, a developer, a systems architect, a Cosmere fan, anime/manga fan, and, like everyone else, just a person figuring things out. Over the last couple of years, I've found myself stuck in a sort of frozen state, merely existing rather than truly living. Deep down, I know part of this has been driven by fear—fear of change, fear of pain, and probably more fears I have yet to identify.

To give some context, I'm a Venezuelan who emigrated to Spain in 2021, right after the pandemic, seeking a better life. In many ways, I have found that better life. I feel more comfortable with my surroundings, but over time, I allowed fear of people and social interactions to creep in. Little by little, I started to withdraw, detaching myself from meaningful social connections. A couple of years later, merely existing and ignoring the concerns of my partner and closest friends, I’m finally starting to understand the consequences of not addressing it earlier.

Now, I’ve taken the first step. There’s some regret for the time lost and for the scars I’ve left behind, but there’s also a lot of hope. I have love for my closest connections and, most importantly, for myself. This marks the beginning of a new chapter in my life—one filled with fear, yes, but also with excitement for the growth that lies ahead.

Here’s to the journey.

# That Was a Heavy Hello—Let Me Share More About Myself

I don’t want this first post to be all about the tough things I’m going through, so let me tell you more about what I do for fun or for a living. Well, I’m a software engineer (shocking, right?) who graduated in 2018 from the Universidad de Los Andes in Mérida, Venezuela. I’ve always been a quiet person with people I’m not confident around, but once I get past that barrier, I can be quite clumsy and much more talkative. One advantage of being the way I am is that I’m a great listener and very supportive.

What else? I watch a lot of YouTube, always learning new things about tech or watching commentary on video games, books, anime, and manga. I love video games that challenge me to solve complex problems, like Satisfactory, but I also really enjoy roguelikes like The Binding of Isaac.

Back in Venezuela, I loved going to the mountains to feel the cold and the calmness. This is something I want to bring back into my life. I enjoy going out to eat or drink and just chilling. Once in a very long while, I like to party—not so much for myself but because I love seeing my favorite people enjoy themselves. I also love driving out of the city and discovering new places, though I wouldn’t call myself a traveler. I’m not the type to constantly hop on planes, haha.

Professionally, as I mentioned before, I’m a software engineer. What I love most about my profession is that I’m constantly learning new things. When the job allows it, I love experimenting with new technologies. I’m a bit obsessed with Docker and Python—not enough to call myself the best (hello, imposter syndrome!)—but I know I’m very skilled. My enthusiasm sometimes means my manager has to rein me in because I’m always trying to improve the workplace with new tools or processes to enhance the development experience. In short, I consider myself a strong team supporter, and I’ve been told I’m a good mentor too—hehe.

Now it feels a little more balanced, right? I’ll be using this space to document my progress on my inner journey, share opinions about life, and take notes for myself while sharing knowledge about the programming world.

Drink water!

> Disclaimer, I know how to write in english haha but I'm taking advantage of AI to make the text more pleasant to read. This is all mine, I swear 😅 I'll leave hidden below the original text in case you want the [UNREFINNED version](/assets/2024-11-16-p0init.txt) here..
{: .prompt-info }

